REVIEWS
SAMSUNG GALAXY S23
As per tradition, Samsung unveiled the Galaxy S23 series at its annual
Unpacked event in February. The series comprises three models – the
Galaxy S23, the larger Galaxy S23 Plus, and the Galaxy S23 Ultra, which
resembles the Galaxy Note series. At first glance, it appears that Samsung
has opted for an iterative approach as the three devices share similarities
with their predecessors. The company seems to be following the adage, “If
it ain’t broke, don’t fix it,” as there are few significant changes from the
previous models.
Samsung has launched the Galaxy S23 series, which is the next
generation of its flagship Android smartphone lineup. Those who want a
top-of-the-line device will want to check out the Galaxy S23 Ultra, with its
incredible 200MP camera and 10X optical zoom. But for everyone else,
there are the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus, They’re practically the
same, but if you prefer more base storage and a larger screen, opt for the
S23 Plus instead of the standard S23.
SAMSUNG GALAXY S23: DETAILED REVIEW
Compact phone lovers can rejoice with the launch of the new Samsung
Galaxy S23, packed with a new SoC, a larger battery, and a revamped
design. Being the smallest among the three Galaxy devices that launched
recently, the Samsung Galaxy S23 can sometimes go under a few phone
buffs’ radar, especially if they’re not invested in compact phones. However,
Samsung has refined this phone quite a bit – and there are some notable
changes in comparison to its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S22.
Starting at ₹74,999, the Galaxy S23 is still not easy on anyone’s wallet, but
the promise of speedier performance courtesy of the new chipset, better
camera performance, and longer battery life does make it seem enticing
enough on paper. Is the Samsung Galaxy S23 worth its hefty price tag
though? Or does it lose ground to the Pixel 7 (review) and the iPhone 14
(review)? Let’s find out in our detailed review.
Seen in a vacuum, the Samsung Galaxy S23 is an excellent, near-perfectly
proportioned Android handset that meets or exceeds expectations.
The mobile phone market, though, is not a vacuum, and the Galaxy S23 is
inevitably judged against all the best smartphones, including its stellar
sibling, the big and bold Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra, and its nearest Apple
competitor, the iPhone 14 Pro.
In that light, Samsung's latest flagship acquits itself nicely, with an excellent
camera array, the most powerful Qualcomm SoC yet, a gorgeous screen,
and a multitude of other capabilities. But it does not outshine the S23 Ultra
or the iPhone 14 Pro. In some instances, I found the S23 equal to anything
Apple threw at it. In others, I wondered why the Galaxy S23 was – leaving
aside the refined design – so similar to the Galaxy S22 and lacking
compared to the beast-like Galaxy S23 Ultra.
At the very least, Samsung could've equipped the Galaxy S23 with last
year's S22 Ultra 108MP main camera sensor. Instead, it chose to leave the
cameras (save the selfie cam) untouched. Don't get me wrong, the S23
takes lovely photos but Samsung could've left the battery life untouched
(200mAh more is not that exciting), added a 10MP periscope zoom, and
radically improved the handset's Space Zoom capabilities too.
Naturally, it's hard to recommend that someone who owns the still-stellar
Samsung Galaxy S22 upgrade to the S23, because it's not much of an
upgrade. That said, newcomers to Samsung or the Android space (as well
as users of much older Galaxy S models) will be hard-pressed to find a
better mix of design, size, power, utility, communication, battery life, and
photographic performance.
6.1 inches turns out to be a lovely mid-spot for most hands and makes you
wonder why the 6.7-inch S23 Plus – which offers only a bigger battery and
larger heat-damping vapor chamber – exists. For comparison's sake,
though, I suggest you read our complete Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus review
and Alex Todd-Walker's extensive Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra review.
Whichever S23 handset you choose, you'll get the same performance,
powered by the new Qualcomm 'Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Mobile Platform for
Galaxy'. GeekBench 5 tests put the mobile SoC within shooting distance of
Apple's industry-leading A16 Bionic but the reality is that numbers do not
tell the full story. There's scarcely a place where the Galaxy S23 can't hold
its own against an iPhone 14 Pro.
The phone's cameras can shoot up to 3x optical zoom and
image-processor-enhanced 30x Space Zoom. It can also shoot 8K video,
which you can do light editing on in the phone's camera app. It's an able
gaming system, content consumption, and productivity handset, with solid
5G support thanks to – in my case – the T-Mobile network.
If you liked the camera array on the S22, you'd be similarly pleased with the
Galaxy S23. It's just as good as the former but with the added benefit of
better image processing and new Camera app tricks for night and
astrophotography.
At least the front-facing camera got a nice 2MP bump to 12MP and takes
some impressive standard and portrait selfie photos.
The flat 6.1-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X Infinity-O FHD+ display (which has
a perfectly round hole-punch at the top, center for the selfie camera) is,
mostly, a replica of the S22's but with improved variable refresh rates of
between 48Hz and 120Hz, and a new Gorilla Glass Victus 2 covering on
the front (the brushed glass on the back is made of the same material).
Aside from the redesigned back that loses the awkward, raised contour
around the cameras, the dimensions are virtually unchanged from the
Galaxy S22. It still feels solid and comfortable to hold. I like the brushed
glass back because it makes the handset feel a little less slip-prone. As
before, the phone is IP68 rated for dust protection and drops in up to 1.5
meters of fresh water for up to 30 minutes.
This is unquestionably one of the best smartphones of 2023, but it still
might not offer enough reasons to upgrade from your also-excellent Galaxy
S22.
Samsung Galaxy S23: Design and display
A side-by-side comparison of the Galaxy S23 and the Galaxy S22 reveals
only one significant change: the rear camera housing on the newer model
has disappeared. Instead, you get three standalone camera rings on the
back panel of the Galaxy S23, which gives it a minimalistic look. The
Galaxy S23 looks cleaner and more refined for sure, but one might argue
that the metal camera bump on the Galaxy S22 added some character to
its design.
That said, everything else about the Galaxy S23’s design simply works. Its
compact form factor makes it ideal for one-handed use. In a sea of
large-screened phones, the Galaxy S23 and the iPhone 14 are perhaps the
only choices for anyone looking for a smaller phone. The matte finish on
the rear glass is soft to the touch and ensures you don’t leave any
fingerprints or smudges on it. This made the Lavender color look
particularly fresh and attractive throughout the review period. It’s easily my
favorite color option, though the Green one looks good in pictures too.
Structurally, the Galaxy S23 has a solid build quality. Structurally, the
Galaxy S23 has a solid build quality. The smartphone is still lightweight,
weighing merely 1 g more than its predecessor, while still being lighter than
the iPhone 14. It is also thinner than Apple’s iPhone 14. This, combined
with the rounded-off edges, gives the phone a very pleasant and ergonomic
in-hand feel. The metal frame is thick enough to offer a good grip. Due to
the phone’s compact design, the power and volume buttons are easy to
reach with your thumb. The device is IP68 rated for dust and water
resistance. The flat 6.1-inch display on the Galaxy S23 is small but not
iPhone SE-level small. It is smaller than what you get on most Android
phones today and about the same size as the one on the iPhone 14.
Screen size aside, every other aspect of the display is nearly identical to
what you’ll find on the Galaxy S23 Plus. It is an OLED panel with a
2340×1080 FHD+ resolution, HDR support, and up to 120Hz adaptive
refresh rate. Samsung is in its comfort zone when it comes to OLED
displays, so be rest assured that the Galaxy S23 will deliver vibrant colors
and deep blacks here.
Peak brightness has been bumped up to 1750 nits from 1300 nits. Even at
less than max brightness, you will be able to see the screen outdoors under
direct sunlight.
Despite that, the Samsung Galaxy S23’s display is fantastic with rich,
vibrant colors, deep blacks, and really good viewing angles. With a PPI
count of 425, everything looks super crisp and detailed as well, so viewing
content on this screen will still be a treat. The display also has a 120 Hz
Adaptive Refresh Rate and refreshes in steps starting from 10 Hz, 24 Hz,
30 Hz… to 120 Hz according to the content on the screen. However, we
didn’t witness it going below 24 Hz even on the Always-On display.
Samsung Galaxy S23: Performance and software
Samsung took fans by surprise when they announced that their Galaxy S23
series of phones would be powered by a customized version of the SD8G2
dubbed the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy. This is essentially
a Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset that has an overclocked CPU and GPU.
This chipset promises 35 percent improved performance and 40 percent
improved efficiency for the CPU, 25 percent performance improvement and
45 percent efficiency improved on the GPU front, and support for faster
memory compared to the SD 8 Gen 1 SoC. This combination is enough to
effortlessly run through most of the apps available on the Play Store.
Internal storage is capped at 256GB on the vanilla S23, while you can get
up to 512GB on the S23 Plus and 1TB on the S23 Ultra.
You are greeted with Android 13-based OneUI 5.1 out of the box.
Samsung’s UI is instantly familiar to anyone who has used a Samsung
phone before. It is a rather easy UI to navigate through and you get a few
pre-loaded apps from Samsung, Microsoft, and Google to help you get
started.
The core configuration has been reworked with this Samsung-exclusive
version flaunting 1x3.36 GHz Cortex-X3 core, 2x2.8 GHz Cortex-A715
cores, 2x2.8 GHz Cortex A710 cores, and 3x2.0 GHz Cortex-A510 cores.
In this case, the prime Cortex-X3 core is the overclocked one. One area of
disappointment is the memory, while this chipset is capable of supporting
newer and faster memory technologies such as LPDDR5X RAM and UFS
4.0 storage, the 128 GB entry-level variant comes with 8 GB LPDDR5 RAM
and 128 GB UFS 3.1 storage. So those who opt for the base variant will
lose out on faster memory speeds. Fortunately, the 256 GB variant is
available at the same price point as the 128 GB S23 during the pre-order
phase, so those who are buying early can avail of the benefit and get the
variant with faster memory speeds.
Consider Geekbench, which rates the A16 Bionic in the iPhone 14 Pro
models as the fastest chip. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy doesn't
change that, but it does get the Galaxy S23 much closer to the iPhone's
Geekbench score than we've seen previously.
Phone CPU Geekbench 5.5
single-core
Geekbench 5.5
multicore
Samsung
Galaxy S23
Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 for Galaxy 1,582 4,876
iPhone 14 A15 Bionic 1,727 4,553
iPhone 14 Pro A16 Bionic 1,891 5,469
Google Pixel 7 Tensor G2 1,054 3,021
OnePlus 11 Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 1,166 4,962
With a multicore score of 4,876, the Galaxy S23 isn't anywhere as fast as
the iPhone 14 Pro (5,469) or iPhone 14 Pro Max (5,333). But it does come
a lot closer to those scores than the 3,348 multicore results posted by last
year's Galaxy S22. More significantly, the Galaxy S23 topped the A15
Bionic-powered iPhone 14's multicore score of 4,553, even if Apple's
entry-level flagship still has a better single-core result.
Phone CPU Wild Life
Unlimited (FPS)
Wild Life Extreme
Unlimited (FPS)
Samsung
Galaxy S23
Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 for Galaxy 87.3 22.9
iPhone 14 A15 Bionic 69.1 15.5
iPhone 14 Pro A16 Bionic 74 19
Google Pixel 7 Tensor G2 40.3 10.5
OnePlus 11 Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 84 22
With a multicore score of 4,876, the Galaxy S23 isn't anywhere as fast as
the iPhone 14 Pro (5,469) or iPhone 14 Pro Max (5,333). But it does come
a lot closer to those scores than the 3,348 multicore results posted by last
year's Galaxy S22. More significantly, the Galaxy S23 topped the A15
Bionic-powered iPhone 14's multicore score of 4,553, even if Apple's
entry-level flagship still has a better single-core result.
Phone CPU Wild Life
Unlimited (FPS)
Wild Life Extreme
Unlimited (FPS)
Samsung
Galaxy S23
Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 for Galaxy 87.3 22.9
iPhone 14 A15 Bionic 69.1 15.5
iPhone 14 Pro A16 Bionic 74 19
Google Pixel 7 Tensor G2 40.3 10.5
OnePlus 11 Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 84 22
We also test phones by having them transcode a 4K video using Adobe
Premiere Rush and timing the results. The iPhone has traditionally
dominated this test, and that continues here. But the Galaxy S23 has
posted the best time of any Android phone we've tested, taking 39 seconds
to transcode the video. That's not as good as the iPhone 14's 28-second
time, but it is a second better than the Galaxy S23 Ultra.
If you value performance but despair at the gap between Android devices
and the iPhone, the Galaxy S23 is the phone you've been waiting for.
For now, Samsung does not stand on equal footing with Apple when it
comes to Satellite connectivity. The latter launched Emergency SOS via
Satellite with the iPhone 14 line and Qualcomm showed how a Snapdragon
8 Gen 2-equipped demo device could send and receive texts over satellite
at CES 2023. Both the S23 and S23 Plus pair the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
with the X70 5G modem, the same one Qualcomm told me is capable of
satellite communications but the capability is not enabled and there is no
timeline for turning it on.
For now, Samsung does not stand on equal footing with Apple when it
comes to Satellite connectivity. The latter launched Emergency SOS via
Satellite with the iPhone 14 line and Qualcomm showed how a Snapdragon
8 Gen 2-equipped demo device could send and receive texts over satellite
at CES 2023. Both the S23 and S23 Plus pair the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
with the X70 5G modem, the same one Qualcomm told me is capable of
satellite communications but the capability is not enabled and there is no
timeline for turning it on.
SAMSUNG GALAXY S23: CAMERA
The Samsung Galaxy S23 features an identical rear camera setup as the
Galaxy S22 but you do get a new selfie camera with a higher-resolution
lens. The phone comes equipped with a 50 MP Samsung S5KGN3 primary
camera with OIS and dual-pixel PDAF, a 10 MP telephoto camera with 3x
optical zoom and OIS and PDAF support, and finally, a 12 MP Sony
IMX564 ultrawide shooter. The new selfie camera is a 12 MP Samsung
S5K3LU sensor with dual-pixel PDAF as well.
The 50 MP main lens captures quad-binned photos at 12 MP (instead of
12.5 MP for some reason) but you can also click full 50 MP resolution
shots. Samsung has also retained Expert RAW mode from last year, which
is now built into the main camera app and unlocks full manual control and
RAW image data.
Now, moving on to photo quality, the main camera provides excellent shots
in daylight with good detail, sharpness, and vivid colours. The dynamic
range is also top-notch in daylight, with the phone exposing highlights and
shadows in a pleasing and natural manner. In tricky lighting conditions, you
can see some noise creep in the shadows when you pixel peep, but it's not
too jarring. There’s good natural background blur as well owing to the large
50 MP sensor. Full 50 MP shooting mode is available, as mentioned
before, which provides higher levels of detail and accurate colours,
however, the shots are slightly noisier than the standard binned images.
Here are some shots, do note that these are compressed for the web.
The 50 MP main lens captures quad-binned photos at 12 MP (instead of
12.5 MP for some reason) but you can also click full 50 MP resolution
shots. Samsung has also retained Expert RAW mode from last year, which
is now built into the main camera app and unlocks full manual control and
RAW image data.
Now, moving on to photo quality, the main camera provides excellent shots
in daylight with good detail, sharpness, and vivid colours. The dynamic
range is also top-notch in daylight, with the phone exposing highlights and
shadows in a pleasing and natural manner. In tricky lighting conditions, you
can see some noise creep in the shadows when you pixel peep, but it's not
too jarring. There’s good natural background blur as well owing to the large
50 MP sensor. Full 50 MP shooting mode is available, as mentioned
before, which provides higher levels of detail and accurate colours,
however, the shots are slightly noisier than the standard binned images.
Here are some shots, do note that these are compressed for the web.
Portrait shots from the main camera are excellent with great subject
separation and detail – however, the default blur levels are a bit too
extreme, and the Pixel 7 and iPhone 14 have much more natural levels of
blur. But you can always edit the blur level of a photo clicked in the Gallery
after the fact. The 3x portraits are also surprisingly good with impressive
background-foreground separation and good colour.
The selfie camera, with its new HDR abilities, offers great dynamic range.
The detail is good enough and there’s not too much oversharpening either.
Colours are natural and noise is minimal as well, the same goes for
low-light photography. All cameras come with Auto Night Mode, so most of
the shots taken have excellent detail with plentiful light, but remember to
keep your hand steady to avoid blur.
Low-light shots on the main camera offer great levels of detail, nice
exposure and good colours. The dynamic range is decent as well. Even in
extreme low-light situations, the phone manages to somewhat light the
subject up convincingly. There are some instances when Night Mode does
blow out the highlights. Shots with Night Mode off are far noisier though but
they tend to keep the highlights in check. However, that's us nitpicking, and
for the most part, the Samsung S23 will provide you with consistently good
photos.
As for video, the S23 can record 8K at 30 fps on the primary camera, up
from 8K at 24 fps on the Samsung Galaxy S22. You also get 4K at 60 fps
across all four cameras, which is great. Video from the primary and
telephoto lens has great stability due to OIS but you can also enable
electronic stabilisation across all cameras to get stable video across the
board. There’s also Super Steady mode at 1440p resolution, an
improvement over last year’s 1080p limitation.
8K video on the S23 is surprisingly good in daylight, with good colours and
dynamic range. The detail is decent as well, slightly like upscaled 4K
content. 4K video clips look outstanding, a real improvement from last year,
with great detail, accurate colours, and likeable dynamic range. Low light
footage from the main camera is decent, however, you will find noise
creeping in. However, low light from the telephoto is quite noisy and not
very usable. The ultrawide camera though still pulls up usable detailed
low-light video clips with good exposure and minimal noise.
SAMSUNG GALAXY S23 REVIEW: BATTERY LIFE
Powered by a larger 3,900 mAh battery, the Samsung Galaxy S23 provides
excellent battery life for its diminutive size. The chipset also provides
improved efficiency which is one of the reasons the battery life has
improved drastically. We got over 17 hours of runtime in our 4K video loop
test, which is an excellent performance. The performance is definitely
vastly improved compared to the Galaxy S22 which ran for merely 10 hours
in our 4K video loop test.
One of my biggest gripes about the Galaxy S22 was battery life, and I'm
happy to report that the mere 200mAh bump in battery capacity has made
a world of difference. I can actually get through an entire workday without
needing to charge the phone, which is impressive since I usually start my
day at 5 am. In my week of use, I typically average about a full day and am
only regulated to charge the phone before going to bed around 10 pm.
In my charge tests, I charged more than 50% in 30 minutes using a 25W
charger, which is basically in line with our lab tests, where we found we
could charge to 55% in 30 minutes.
With the slight battery increase and more efficient chipset, Samsung and
Qualcomm worked wonders with the Galaxy S23, giving it the power and
longevity one might not expect from a small phone. And thanks to their
partnership, the phone ships globally with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for
Galaxy, so everyone gets to experience the best that Snapdragon has to
offer on the Galaxy S23.
We also ran other battery tests, where 30 minutes of streaming Netflix
dropped the battery by 3 percent (from 85 to 82), 15 minutes of Call of
Duty: Mobile dropped the battery by 3 percent (from 62 to 59) and 1 hour of
GPS navigation took 5 percent off the board (from 18 to 13).
As for charging, while the S23+ and S23 Ultra support 45 W wired
charging, the Galaxy S23 is limited to 25 W charging. The phone tops up
from zero to full in about 65 minutes but this still feels laboriously slow on a
pricey phone in 2023. However, the 45 W charging brick from last year was
merely a few minutes quicker to charge to full than the 25 W one, so keep
that in mind as well. Nevertheless, Samsung really needs to up its charging
game, to compete with brands such as Xiaomi, iQOO, OPPO, and others.
SAMSUNG GALAXY S23 REVIEW: VERDICT
As the current smartphone landscape goes, we can say without a doubt,
the Samsung Galaxy S23 is the best compact Android phone we’ve ever
tested. Despite its compact form factor, the phone manages to win you over
with not just its premium build and design but also its speedy performance,
refined UI, fantastic battery life, and superb camera. It is a well-rounded
phone in every sense of the word that offers flagship-grade performance
without the premium of spending over a lakh. While iPhone users may still
prefer the iPhone 14, this phone will give compact iPhone users tethering
the edge a real reason to make the switch, especially due to the higher
refresh rate screen and the presence of optical zoom. However, we’d urge
everyone to go for the 256 GB variant of the phone over the base variant to
leverage faster memory speeds across the board. That aside, Samsung
has made a truly commendable compact flagship that excels in almost
every aspect of a smartphone.
You should buy this if...
● You prefer smaller phones
● You want a phone that will get you through the day
● You prefer vibrant, colorful photos
You shouldn't buy this if...
● You already have the Galaxy S22
● You want super-fast wired charging
● You're looking for an inexpensive phone
There's no such thing as a perfect phone, but every year, Samsung gets
even close to hitting the mark with its baby flagship. Last year, the company
had some hurdles to overcome, but the company proved that it was
listening to user feedback and gave us the improvements we were hoping
for.
The Galaxy S23 crams a lot of power into a small body, and it manages
that power quite well. Performance is stellar and battery life is much
improved. There's a lot to like about the Galaxy S23, so much so that I'm
disappointed we didn't get the same level of improvements with the Galaxy
S22.
I'm not a huge fan of the cameras, but they're still good and definitely not a
deal-breaker in my eyes. And there's definitely plenty more I would like to
see in future models, like faster charging and a bolder design, but the
Galaxy S23 is a step in the right direction and a return to form for
Samsung's baby flagship.
If you're rocking the Galaxy S22, it may not be worth upgrading, unless you
really need that extra battery life. Otherwise, this is a phone I would
recommend to anyone looking for a pocketable flagship. That is, if you're
not put off by the price tag.
Samsung S23 Plus
It can be easy to forget that the Galaxy S23 Plus even exists,
overshadowed as it is by the more premium and feature-rich Galaxy S23
Ultra. And those looking for a cheaper flagship smartphone might gravitate
toward the cute little Galaxy S23. There’s no reason to ignore this phone,
though — the S23 Plus shares most of its features with the rest of the S23
family, including an overclocked Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip, a fantastic
OLED screen, and Samsung’s class-leading update guarantee. Most
smartphone OEMs don’t have the scale to release three different versions
of the same phone, but Samsung does. That means you can play
Goldilocks and skip the phone that’s too big, ignore the one that’s too small,
and settle in with one that might be just right for you.
The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus again treads that tightrope, but its excellent
small-scale sibling – the Samsung Galaxy S23 – delivers enough in the
way of impressive style, performance and camera credentials to make this
year’s Plus edition seem much more appealing than it otherwise might do
(read our Samsung Galaxy S23 review and Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra
review for our full verdicts on the other two phones in the S23 lineup).
The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus again treads that tightrope, but its excellent
small-scale sibling – the Samsung Galaxy S23 – delivers enough in the
way of impressive style, performance and camera credentials to make this
year’s Plus edition seem much more appealing than it otherwise might do
(read our Samsung Galaxy S23 review and Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra
review for our full verdicts on the other two phones in the S23
lineup).Samsung was able to boost the battery capacity versus the Galaxy
S22 Plus from 4,500mAh to 4,700mAh, while also upping the base storage
from 128GB to 256GB.
Most mobile CPUs – including Qualcomm's standard Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
and the formidable A16 Bionic inside the Pro members of Apple's iPhone
14 line – are fast enough for the vast majority of users. That said, the extra
bit of juice that Samsung and Qualcomm have coaxed out of the 8 Gen 2 in
these devices means slightly better video capture at the highest resolution,
slightly smoother gaming, and slightly more powerful CPU-intensive
operations, like 8K video editing. The improvements, however, are more
negligible than groundbreaking.
That bespoke processor is also important to bear in mind when you look at
the S23 Plus’ largely unchanged camera array (versus the Samsung
Galaxy S22 Plus). The phone rocks a 50MP wide, 12MP ultrawide, and
10MP optically-stabilized 3x telephoto zoom setup, though the front camera
is now 12MP, up from 10MP on the Galaxy S22 Plus (which is a change
consistent across the whole S23 range). Tangible improvements to
photography instead come from the S23 Plus’ upgraded chipset and more
powerful AI features.
Samsung hasn’t messed around with a winning formula when it comes to
the phone’s 6.6-inch AMOLED display. There's still an ultrasonic fingerprint
reader underneath it, and a punch hole selfie camera near the top.
Everything looks suitably bright and colorful, while motion is governed by
an adaptive refresh rate that, once again, scales between 48Hz and a
buttery-smooth 120Hz.
Samsung has likewise kept the phone’s dimensions virtually unchanged
from the Galaxy S22 Plus, but compared to the S23, this year's Plus is a
larger phone that feels more substantial. Its larger Gorilla Glass Victus 2
and Armor Aluminum-clad body leaves room for a bigger 4,700mAh battery
(200mAh larger than the one in the previous Plus) – as well as a larger
cooling chamber – though the phone manages to maintain its sibling’s
exceptionally handsome looks, despite its beefier bodykit.
In all, then, the Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus is an excellent like-for-like
alternative to the standard S23, but its significantly higher price makes it a
hard sell to anyone content with its smaller sibling’s much more compact
size (which we described as “perfect” in our review).
What’s more, since there aren’t too many notable upgrades over the
Galaxy S22 Plus to be found here beyond processing power, battery life
and more storage options, this is probably a phone best suited to Galaxy
newcomers – or those who just aren’t able to shell out on the
eye-wateringly expensive S23 Ultra.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Design
Samsung kept a familiar design for the Galaxy S23 Plus, which, from the
front, looks indistinguishable from the Galaxy S22 Plus. On the back, things
appear a little different thanks to the new camera module layout.
Gone is the contour cut design introduced on the Galaxy S21 with
individually stacked lenses replacing it. It looks akin to the Galaxy S23
Ultra, minus the second telephoto camera and laser autofocus. I welcome
this shift since it adds some cohesion among the Galaxy S23 series.
Immediately upon picking it up, I thought the Galaxy S23 Plus felt
extremely well-built. It’s solid with a comfortable heft at 6.9 ounces (196
grams). I appreciate its sturdiness, which inspires a lot of confidence that it
would survive an accidental drop.
For the 6.6-inch Galaxy S23 Plus, this means removing the iconic Contour
Cut metalwork from around the camera array. Now, all three lenses float
near the upper-left side of the phone's brushed glass Gorilla Victus 2 back
(there's also glossy Victus 2 glass covering the display). It's a very clean
look – in fact, this might well be my favorite-ever design for a Galaxy phone
– but it also means the S series loses some of its individuality, which may
grate on diehard Samsung fans.
Despite removing the bit of Armor Aluminum, the dimensions of the Galaxy
S23 Plus are almost exactly the same as those of the Galaxy S22 Plus. Its
76.2 x 157.73 x 7.62mm frame – which weighs 195g – was a touch on the
large size for my slender hands; the S23 Plus is slightly bigger than the
iPhone 14 Pro, but a little smaller than the 6.7-inch iPhone 14 Pro Max –
though the phone was far from uncomfortable to use. The curved metal
band surrounding the device, for instance, felt cool and smooth to the
touch.
There are a few other design alterations. The power and volume buttons
have been moved down a little on the edge of the device, and some
antenna bands have been repositioned. Personally, I’d have liked to see
Samsung move the volume button to the left-hand side of the phone to
avoid my frequent misclicking of the power button, though this is likely
something I’d eventually get used to. The bottom edge speaker-grille holes
– which are next to the USB-C port, mic holes, and SIM slot – are slightly
larger, too.
Select elements on these phones are made from recycled materials,
including the volume and power buttons, and the speaker grille at the very
top of the display. In addition, the Gorilla Glass Victus 2 uses 22% recycled
materials, and some of the phone's packaging is recycled, too. Even the
plastic cover you'll peel off the screen when unboxing it is partially recycled.
There’s a nice selection of colors to choose from. I handled the Cotton and
green models for this review, with black and Lilac being the other two
standard variants. As is nowadays the case, there are also additional colors
– like Lime and Graphite – which are only available through Samsung.com.
Every Galaxy S23 device is IP68-protected against a drop in water or a roll
in dirt, so neither should bother any of them as a result.
In short, the Galaxy S23 Plus is, on paper, one of the most durable phones
you can buy today.
Samsung streamlined the color options this year, keeping them the same
across all three Galaxy S23 models. That means the Galaxy S23 Plus
comes in Phantom Black, Cream, Lavender, and Green, the latter of which
I received for review. I’m quite partial to the dark forest vibe, similar to the
iPhone 11 Pro. It has a clean and sophisticated look.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Display
As with most other Galaxy S23 line aspects, the AMOLED display hasn't
changed much since the S22 line.
The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus' 6.6-inch, 2316 x 1080-pixel screen is big,
bright, and responsive. To preserve battery, the optional adaptive refresh
rate tunes the screen depending on what you're doing, down to 48Hz. In
my experience, this still allowed for phenomenally smooth scrolling, with
motion-heavy footage in high-resolution YouTube videos appearing
similarly silky. The phone also still supports 240Hz touch-sampling for
speedy gaming responses.
As with Galaxy S devices in the past, the display makes the Galaxy S23
Plus truly stand out from its Android competition. Featuring a max rated
brightness of 1,750 nits (up from 1,300 nits on the Galaxy S22 Plus), the
latest Galaxy middle child’s screen knocked my socks off.
In terms of brightness, the S23 Plus had no trouble beating back the bright
light set up for our product photography. That's likely thanks to its 1,750nit
peak brightness, although typically the screen will run at 1,200nits.
The phone's adaptive brightness system also now includes more steps to
properly adjust for your various viewing environments, and it always felt as
though Samsung had the well-being of my eyeballs in mind during my
testing of the S23 Plus.
However, Samsung proved more color accurate with its Delta-E score of
0.23 — where zero is perfect — in the Natural mode versus the iPhone 14
Pro’s 0.25. If you opt for the default Vivid setting, you’ll enjoy some vibrant
colors, as evidenced by the performance in the sRGB and DCI-P3 gamuts.
At 6.6 inches, the Galaxy S23 Plus strikes a nice balance between the
smaller Galaxy S23 (6.1 inches) and the massive Galaxy S23 Ultra (6.8
inches). My biggest disappointment with the display, however, comes down
to its refresh rate.
To test a display, my favorite thing to do during a smartphone review is to
watch my favorite scenes from Blade Runner 2049 and play Genshin
Impact.
For the former, the film has the typical bright neons of a dystopian
cyberpunk future, but then it radically shifts to the harsh orange tones of an
abandoned wasteland. The Galaxy S23 Plus handled both elements
exceedingly well, especially in the Vivid mode. The neons stunned me, as
did the orange and darker parts throughout the rest of the movie.
Genhin Impact uses a supersaturated anime-style aesthetic that shines on
the Galaxy S23 Plus. The scenery, particle effects, and character models
all look fantastic. When combined with the phone’s best-in-class gaming
performance, which we’ll get to in a minute, the Galaxy S23 Plus is one of
the best places to play this game.
Sure, it can ramp up to 120Hz for the kind of smoothness we expect from
flagship smartphones nowadays, but it can only clock down to 48Hz. Other
phones like the OnePlus 11 can downclock to 1Hz for added power
efficiency. Even the Pixel 7 Pro supports a range of 10-120Hz. While the
Galaxy S23 Plus does sport much better battery life than its predecessors, I
think a lower range could have improved things even more.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Performance
The entire Galaxy S23 lineup uses the same processor, Qualcomm's
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy. That last part -- the "for Galaxy" -- is key.
It comes from a partnership between the tech giants to optimize
Qualcomm's latest chip for Samsung's phones.
Effectively, it's an overclocked version of the standard Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
processor, giving Samsung access to its max 3.36GHz processing speed.
Not only does the entire Samsung Galaxy S23 line get the best Qualcomm
has to offer in mobile chipsets, the phones even get their own special
edition of that offering.
The Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus (and all S23 devices) are running the
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Mobile Platform for Galaxy. What this boils
down to is a little more juice under the hood, with the CPU running at
3.36GHz (up from 3.2GHz). That's a lot of power for a little smartphone.
In practice, the Galaxy S23 Plus delivers on its promise of superior
performance, comfortably outpacing – or at least matching – the best
Android phones for speed. Whether you’re rapidly swiping across its home
screen, multitasking with various apps or photographing using one of its
power-hungry camera modes, the S23 Plus is near-flawlessly responsive.
The phone – or its smaller sibling, at least – may yet earn a place on our
list of best gaming phones, too. It loads titles quickly, doesn’t stutter during
heavy sessions, and comfortably copes with demanding graphical settings.
As expected, the S23 Ultra can juggle more applications and games for
longer without noticeable slowdown or temperature increases, but it was
still a challenge to make the S23 Plus heat up in the hand. I spent an hour
or so with FIFA Mobile on the S23 Plus, and only noticed the growing
warmth of the phone after around 30 mins of gameplay.
Like its siblings, the Galaxy S23 Plus offers decent stereo sound that's
sharp and clear, though the lack of any real bass means you'll probably
want to plug headphones in to get the best viewing (or listening)
experience.
I ran a quick benchmark test using Geekbench 6, which simulates common
tasks and workloads, on the S23 Plus to get a general idea of its
performance. The S23 Plus' average single-core score average was 1,961,
and its average multi-core score was 5,207, practically matching the S23
Ultra's scores in the same test. Incredibly, Qualcomm’s Adreno 740 GPU
outmuscles the A16 Bionic’s in both of the 3DMark Wild Life benchmarks
we ran. 13 frames per second in Unlimited is no small difference, even
though the Extreme Unlimited results aren’t too far off from each other.
Apple once again asserts its dominance in the Adobe Premiere Rush test,
where it completed the transcode 13 seconds faster than the Galaxy S23
Plus.
All the Galaxy S23 phones are 5G-capable, and, yes, they still include
physical SIM slots. One thing Samsung is not currently touting is any kind
of satellite connectivity, which, given the current competitive environment, is
a little surprising. Apple, for instance, introduced Emergency SOS via
Satellite with the iPhone 14 line, and Qualcomm showed at CES 2023 how
a Snapdragon 8 Gen 2-equipped demo device could send and receive
texts over satellite, so it’s a little disappointing to see this functionality
absent from the S23 line.
However, both the S23 and S23 Plus pair the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 with the
X70 5G modem, the same one Qualcomm told us is capable of satellite
communications; so conceivably, Samsung and its carrier partners could
turn on this feature later.
In real-world use, the Galaxy S23 Plus is a powerhouse. The Snapdragon 8
Gen 2 for Galaxy is a special overclocked version of the regular chip
exclusive to the Galaxy S23 series (for now). It shows in all aspects,
especially gaming. Achieving a steady 60 fps at max settings on Genshin
Impact was no problem, and I couldn’t find any other game in my library
that could make the S23 Plus trip.
Make no mistake, the Galaxy S23 Plus means business and can handle
whatever you throw at it, even the most demanding games.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Software
The entire Samsung Galaxy S23 line ships with Android 13 and Samsung's
One UI 5.1 overlay. Samsung is promising four generations of OS upgrades
and five years of security upgrades.
Being virtually unchanged from the S22 line, the software experience on
the S23 Plus is extremely familiar, so existing Samsung fans shouldn’t
encounter any red flags in the user experience department.
Though small, the upgrades remain notable. For example, the Bixby Text
Call grabbed my attention immediately, as no other phone maker has come
close to replicating Google’s impressive Pixel-exclusive Call Assist suite.
Basically, this feature has Bixby, Samsung’s virtual assistant, answer phone
calls for you with text messages. These messages will get converted into
audio for the caller, similar to how Google’s Call Screen works. That said,
Samsung has introduced a number of new software features including
better Samsung Notes (there are now co-create features), co-watching in
Google Meet, and enhanced security features. The latter adds the ability to
set your S23 Plus in Maintenance Mode (added in One UI 5.0), so all your
data is protected while someone works on your phone. There's also a
refined privacy dashboard. These are all neat – if not groundbreaking –
additions to an already solid software experience.
There are quite a few more lesser features which you can read about in our
One UI 5.1 feature breakdown. For my purposes, the Galaxy S23 Plus’
software is a solid experience offering useful additions to Google’s Android
13 base. The best part is that navigating the S23 Plus is a breeze if you’re
used to Samsung phones already, even if you’re coming from something
older like the Galaxy S20 Plus.
Finally, I think you should pay attention to what Samsung does with
updates. It currently has the best update policy in the Android world,
besting even Google at its own game. The Korean phone maker promises
four years of platform updates, meaning the Galaxy S23 Plus will continue
to get the latest Android version into 2027. Samsung also promises five
years of security patches, making the Galaxy S23 Plus more secure well
into 2028.
I place a huge emphasis on updates because it means that you can — at
least from a software perspective — keep your phone longer before you
need to replace it. Having an up-to-date and secure device is extremely
important, so I applaud Samsung for going for the sustainability route and
helping people save money.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Camera
The Galaxy S23 Plus features the same rear cameras as the Galaxy S22
Plus, namely a 50MP main sensor with a 12MP ultrawide and 10MP
telephoto (3x optical zoom) alongside it. The upgrade comes in the form of
the 12MP front camera, which is a bump from last year’s 10MP.
Thanks to the removal of the raised metal Contour Cut element around the
camera system, all three lenses look a little larger, but this is essentially the
same hardware setup as on the Galaxy S22 and S22 Plus. The big
differences in image capture performance are driven, naturally, by the
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 that backs them up.
It's a shame that the Galaxy S23 and S23 Plus didn't adopt the Galaxy S22
Ultra's camera array, with its 108MP sensor and that amazing 100x Space
Zoom. Still, this setup – with its upgraded image sensor and image
processing – is nothing to sneeze at.
Images snapped in the phone’s default “pixel-binned” mode are sufficiently
detailed and colorful, with little quality disparity between those taken in day
or night environments. Low-light scenarios do seem to yield a slightly
warmer hue, but HDR is implemented to exceptional effect when things get
properly dark.
When it comes to everyday photos, the S23 Plus nails it in traditional
Samsung fashion. What I mean by that is that Samsung is known for
upping the saturation levels of its photos, giving it a pop of color many
prefer.
Both in regular lighting settings and in low-light environments, the S23 Plus'
photos are vibrant and have a sharpness to them that just looks good.
Despite the absence of the S22 (and S23) Ultra’s 100x Space Zoom
feature on the S23 Plus, the latter’s 30x maximum digital zoom is still
impressive. Images begin to muddy around the 10x mark, but you’ll still be
able to capture crisp shots of objects around 50m away.
Samsung’s iPhone-beating Portrait mode returns from the S22 Plus, too,
while new camera features include Astrophoto, Astro Hyperlapse, Super
HDR selfie video at 60fps and more accurate skin tone capture.
The Plus also gets the same video capabilities as the S23 and S23 Ultra.
You can shoot in up to 8K at 30fps, though the lack of image stabilization
on all three phones means you’re probably better off recording in fully
stabilized 4K at 60fps. Nonetheless, this is a highly capable handset for
video capture.
The S23 Plus leapfrogs its predecessor in the front-facing camera
department, replacing the latter’s 10MP sensor with a new 12MP one.
Sure, 12MP isn't exactly world-beating, but other phones in this price range
– including the iPhone 14 Pro – rock similar front-facing setups. The
front-facing camera took smooth, and sometimes too smooth, selfie photos.
That's long been a complaint of mine about Samsung's selfie cams --
they're far too aggressive trying to smooth out my skin and it results in an
almost fake-looking photo.
It's natural to have some megapixel envy when comparing the S23 Plus
and the S23 Ultra and feel tempted to spend more money on the Ultra just
for its camera setup, but having used both phones, I can say that while the
Ultra's camera is impressive, the Plus is no slouch, and I'd wager most
people will be just as happy with it.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Battery Life
One of the reasons you buy a bigger phone is for the bigger battery. The
Galaxy S23 Plus has a 4,700mAh battery, which is 200mAh larger than the
one in the Galaxy S22 Plus and 800mAh larger than the battery in the
standard Galaxy S23. The Galaxy S23 Ultra, on the other hand, boasts a
whopping 5,000mAh battery.
The Galaxy S23 Plus comes equipped with a 4,700 mAh battery, up from
4,500 mAh in the Galaxy S22 Plus. Coupled with the more efficient
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 silicon and the S23 Plus nets an excellent battery life
result in our testing.
That beats both the iPhone 14 Pro and Pixel 7 Pro, the Galaxy S23 Plus’
biggest competitors — almost three and a half hours in the latter’s case.
That’s an excellent change of pace for Samsung, since the Galaxy S22
Plus went for a much lower 9 hours and 27 minutes in the same test.
During testing, I was able to comfortably use the Galaxy S23 Plus for
almost two days in a general day-to-day capacity before needing to juice it
back up again, which is around half a day longer than the standard S23
offers. My device dropped to 60% at midnight after the first day of normal
use, before dropping to 1% at around 7pm the following day.
The S23 Plus’ Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chipset also means that heavy gaming
or streaming sessions don’t drain its battery as much as equivalent
sessions do on the S22 Plus. An hour of 1080p YouTube streaming on full
brightness, for instance, only ate up around 5% charge, while a similarly
long FIFA Mobile gaming session only knocked around 10% off the phone’s
battery life.
The S23 Plus supports 45W wired fast charging – the same as the S22
Plus – where its smaller sibling only supports 25W. In practice, though, the
difference between the two charging speeds is pretty inconsequential. The
latter charged to 55% in 30 minutes during testing, while the S23 Plus
managed a slightly better 62% (though I used a non-Samsung 45W
charger for the Plus test). There's also wireless and reverse wireless
charging on the S23 Plus, too. And with 45W charging (charger not
included), the Galaxy S23 Plus can regain about 70% of its battery in 30
minutes. That bests both the iPhone 14 Pro (20W) and Pixel 7 Pro, though
we only had a 20W charger at hand for the latter. (The Pixel 7 Pro supports
up to 23W charging.)
Oh, and it’s worth noting that – as with the standard S23 and S23 Ultra –
you won’t get a charger included in the box with the S23 Plus.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Verdict
The Samsung Galaxy S23+ is in sort of a weird spot. It's a large,
high-quality, thousand-dollar flagship, but it's not Samsung's flagship
flagship. If the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is a phone for enthusiasts,
though, the Galaxy S23+ is for slightly more casual smartphone users who
still want a big, premium device, but don't necessarily need every single
feature they can stuff in their pocket. For those buyers, the S23+ is almost
ideal.
The Samsung Galaxy S23+ is in sort of a weird spot. It's a large,
high-quality, thousand-dollar flagship, but it's not Samsung's flagship
flagship. If the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra is a phone for enthusiasts,
though, the Galaxy S23+ is for slightly more casual smartphone users who
still want a big, premium device, but don't necessarily need every single
feature they can stuff in their pocket. For those buyers, the S23+ is almost
ideal.
Samsung S23 Ultra
The Galaxy S23 Ultra offers up a familiar face that, at a glance, looks
identical to its predecessor. The changes are there though, they're just not
as big as those you'll find on the Galaxy S23 and S23 Plus. (You can read
our Complete Samsung Galaxy S23 review and our thorough Samsung
S23 Plus review for more on those two phones).
A familiar squared design plays host to a tweaked display that offers a
greater flat surface area, giving the S Pen stylus more room to work with.
The front and back now sport the latest and most resilient Gorilla Glass
Victus 2, and all the mod-cons from its predecessor – including IP68 dust
and water resistance, and 45W wired charging – remain.
Samsung has also worked to integrate more recycled materials into the
phone's design, with the likes of recycled fishing nets going into the
construction of the S Pen's inner cover and the speaker module, for
example.
Some elements – like the 6.8-inch 1Hz to 120Hz adaptive Dynamic
AMOLED 2X display and the 5,000mAh battery – have received seemingly
minor tweaks (greater color accuracy and 20% improved efficiency, in the
case of the above examples, respectively).
On the inside, however, there are some bigger changes, like the new
'Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Mobile Platform for Galaxy' that Samsung and
Qualcomm have collaborated on; purpose-built to offer rival-beating
performance (51% better NPU performance, 41% better GPU performance
and 33% greater CPU performance than previously, according to
Samsung). The Ultra – along with the Galaxy S23 and Galaxy S23 Plus – is
also one of the first phones out there to boast faster and more efficient
LPDDR5X RAM and UFS 4.0 storage.
A familiar-looking rear four-camera rear array hides a new 200MP lead
sensor that offers 16-to-1 pixel-binning, with the aim of advancing the S23
Ultra's 'Nightography' abilities for everything from general snaps, to portrait
photography, to videos of the night sky using the new Astro Hyperlapse
mode and in practice, although imperfect, you'll be hard-pressed to find an
alternative phone with the same level of consistency, quality and
confidence across its various sensors.
Those who want to shoot with greater control now also benefit from
enhanced editing control too, with the ability to work with shots at up to
50MP captured in Expert RAW mode.
You still get a 12MP ultrawide and dual telephoto lenses at 3x and 10x
(periscopic) zoom, respectively, granting the S23 Ultra the same degree of
class-leading camera versatility offered up by the last couple of generations
of Ultra.
Samsung has also renewed its commitment to offering up to four years of
OS updates and five years of security updates, across the Galaxy S23
series. All three arrive with One UI 5.1 atop Android 13, which folds in
better collaborative working in Samsung Notes and an enhanced Privacy
Dashboard, among other things.
While the starting price (in the US, at least) remains consistent with the
Galaxy S22 Ultra's base price, Samsung has doubled the entry-level
storage to 256GB, while the top-tier model can be had with 12GB of RAM
(up from 8GB on the base version) and a whopping 1TB of storage.
For a deeper dive, head on to the full in-depth review below, but know that,
provided you're comfortable with the Ultra's high asking price, there's little
to be disappointed by here.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: Design
The promotional images had me convinced that the S23 Ultra is physically
unchanged from last year's Galaxy S22 Ultra, but holding the phone in my
hand for the first time surprised me. The S23 Ultra, while featuring identical
physical dimensions to its predecessor, now has slightly flattened side rails
compared to last year. This seemingly small change makes the phone feel
more comfortable to hold and allows for a more secure grip.
I use the word "comfortable" only in a relative term, as this is still a chunky
boi that might feel too unwieldy for you, especially if you haven't handled an
Ultra flagship in the last 2-3 years. I would have liked it if it was slightly
narrower, but at least Samsung did a good job balancing its 234 grams of
weight.
The S22 Ultra was the first of Samsung's phones to truly fuse Galaxy S and
Galaxy Note sensibilities together, and in doing so it shrugged off the
contour-cut camera-led aesthetics of its predecessor and its launch
siblings. Instead, it favored a cleaner and more squared form; partly as a
means of further differentiating itself from the standard S22 and S22 Plus,
but also in order to physically accommodate an integrated S Pen stylus.
For the S23 series, the standard and Plus models have played catch-up in
the design department, while the S23 Ultra offers only subtle refinements
that, to the eye, will be almost impossible to spot for those familiar with the
S22 Ultra.
There's a similar pill-shaped top-down profile, with curved front and back
glass feeding into a metal frame, although one change S22 Ultra users
might notice when they pick up the S23 Ultra, is the reduced the radius of
the curved edges of the display, giving you a greater flat surface area on
which to use the integrated S Pen; a subtle but welcome tweak, functionally
speaking.
I'd argue this small change makes the phone harder to pick up off a flat
surface but the difference is negligible. Its squared silhouette will be more
divisive, however, making it trickier to pocket than the Galaxy S21 Ultra –
with its rounded corners. It remains an undeniably good looking device
that's becoming of its premium standing and promised power, though.
With launch S23 colors consistent across the whole range this year, you
can pick the Ultra up in one of four finishes – Phantom Black, cream, green
and lavender – in most places. As in previous years though, there are also
a handful of colors exclusive to Samsung.com, including Sky Blue,
Graphite, Lime and red (my personal favorite, offset against a black frame).
While the cap of the S Pen matches the body color of your choosing, the
rest of the stylus is black, regardless of your preferred finish.
In a not dissimilar fashion to the recent Hazel Google Pixel 7 Pro or the
brand-new Eternal Green OnePlus 11, the green finish of the S23 Ultra
review sample I've been testing is distinctly muted, particularly when
viewed in artificial light. To some, this will come across as subtle and
tasteful, to others it'll just look bland; so if you get the chance, try and get
hands-on with your chosen finish before laying down any cash (assuming
you don't plan on sticking it in one of the best Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra
cases from the get-go).
The company's excellent efforts in durability persist too, with IP68-certified
dust and water ingress protection, a resilient Armor Aluminum alloy frame
and – for the first time on any phone, the latest Gorilla Glass Victus 2 –
from Corning. It's a good thing too, as the rounded edges (even if they are
slightly less rounded this year), paired with that smooth front and back, and
the sheer size of the phone make it tricky to wield one-handed, especially
when compared to its smaller, flat-fronted S23 siblings.
For all the advanced technology that Samsung has managed to pack into
the S23 series, it's also tried to up the ante in terms of
environmentally-friendly materials, with the Ultra being the real champion of
this initiative. 80% of the deco film used in the construction of the phone's
back is recycled, as is 22% of the glass used across its body, along with
20% of the S Pen's inner cover – reportedly hewn, in part, from
ocean-bound polyamide.
Samsung claims that other recycled materials that have been hammered
into the shape of the S23 Ultra include discarded fishing nets, water
barrels, PET bottles and pre-consumer recycled aluminum, which have
contributed to the construction of components (12 in all – double that of the
S22 Ultra) like the volume keys and SIM tray, speaker arrangement, 5G
antenna arrangement and more.
While Samsung isn't alone in working to improve the the green credentials
of its phones (the iPhone comes to mind), this is certainly the most vocal
we've seen the company about a particular handset in this regards and it
represents a push that will hopefully catch on with rival phone makers
going forward.
Samsung S23 Ultra: Display
Aside from that reduced curvature along its edges and greater protection
thanks to that new Gorilla Glass Victus 2, the S23 Ultra's display offers a
familiar viewing experience to its predecessor.
As on last year's Ultra, you get a 6.8-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X panel, with
a resolution of 1440 x 3088 and a dynamic refresh rate that can scale
between 1Hz and 120Hz, automatically shifting to prioritize power efficiency
or visual fluidity as needed. By having the display rate displayed on-screen
using developer options, I was able to see the screen switch between
24Hz, 48Hz, 60Hz and 120Hz, which is a wider array of frequencies than
I've seen from any other Android phone boasting a dynamic refresh rate,
supporting Samsung's claims of greater power efficiency this generation.
It is well-known that Samsung's flagships have some of the best displays in
the smartphone market. The Galaxy S23 Ultra features a display that's
basically unchanged from last year, but it can still claim to be the best. It's
super bright, with 1200 nits of brightness in regular scenarios and up to
1750 nits of peak brightness in HDR content. I took the phone out during
bright sunny California outings, and the screen was perfectly legible even in
direct sunlight.
While it supports a native resolution of 1440p, you can dial down the
screen resolution to 1080p, which is how I used the phone mostly. Even at
1080p, the screen looks fantastic, with punchy colors and deep blacks. You
get support for HDR across streaming apps, and consuming multimedia on
this display is a treat. The tiny punch-hole camera cutout at the top doesn't
get in the way a lot, and the tall 19.5:9 aspect ratio is perfect for almost
everything from watching wide format videos on YouTube to scrolling
through vertical social media feeds.
The screen also features an adaptive refresh rate of up to 120Hz, giving
you a silky-smooth scrolling experience across apps while also dialing it
down to 24Hz to save battery when you're not touching the screen. One big
letdown with the display, though, is that Samsung has opted for a low PWM
flicker rate for its premium flagships, and this is no exception with the S23
Ultra. While this may not be a concern for most users, if you are particularly
sensitive to screen flicker or frequently use your phone in low-light
environments, this may pose a challenge.
Max brightness still doesn't compare to the iPhone 14 Pro's impressive
2,000 nit peak (the S23 range all tops out at 1,750 nits), but in real-world
viewing, movies, games and other visuals look exceptional. Meanwhile,
Samsung isn't making any new claims of further-reduced S Pen latency or
additional Air Gesture functionality this time around, but it's already
impressively responsive (Wacom-supported tech that allows for 2.8ms
latency) and the user experience has been augmented in other ways that
appeal to productivity.
It's worth mentioning that even the latest iPhones share this characteristic.
In contrast, some recent Android phones from brands like Realme and
Motorola have transitioned to higher PWM displays, addressing this
concern.
The high-quality vibration motor under the display adds haptic feedback to
your screen interactions. However, it's worth noting that iPhones and even
some of the latest Xiaomi flagships offer haptics that feel even more refined
and premium. The ultrasonic fingerprint scanner works reliably well to
provide secure biometric unlocking.
Finally, the speaker setup here is better than ever, with the top earpiece
working in tandem with the speaker at the bottom to provide clear, rich
audio with even hints of some actual bass. Top quality stuff!
Samsung Galaxy S23 Plus: Performance
Unlike previous years, the entire S23 series is powered by the same chip
globally, namely the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 for Galaxy. Here's what the "for
Galaxy" part means, but what you need to know is that this is undoubtedly
the slickest, most responsive Samsung phone to date. Helped by the fact
that the Galaxy S23 Ultra packs in the latest UFS 4.0 storage, this phone
flies through daily tasks. Whether launching heavy apps, switching between
apps for multi-tasking, or just keeping your apps suspended in memory, the
S23 Ultra can do it all without breaking a sweat.
It's not really a secret that Samsung has connections in high places,
building Wear OS 3 with Google and having co-developed the last few
generations of its own flagship chips in conjunction with Qualcomm, but
that partnership has matured into something exceptional for 2023.
Whereas previously, users in different markets could expect Galaxy S
devices powered by either Samsung Exynos or Qualcomm Snapdragon
silicon, the Galaxy S23 series gains Qualcomm's latest and greatest
Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 chip worldwide.
This eliminates performance discrepancies that previously left users of
Exynos-powered Galaxy S phones feeling behind the curve and also helps
with aspects like camera processing (thanks to the use of the same ISP
across regions) and battery life consistency.
Not only has the 8 Gen 2 already shown its capabilities (our OnePlus 11
review already offers first-hand insight into how the chip performs) but
Samsung has managed to gain access to an exclusive tuned variant of the
SoC, dubbed the 'Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 Mobile Platform for Galaxy'. In a
nutshell, the prime Cortex-X3 core inside the chipset has been overclocked
to 3.36GHz (rather than 3.2GHz, as is standard); without compromising
efficiency or battery longevity.
Talking about gaming, the Galaxy S23 Ultra can run all of the heaviest
games available on the Android ecosystem at their highest settings,
although it's missing the option to run games like PUBG and Call of Duty
Mobile at 120fps. Despite not being a gaming-centric smartphone, it can
hold its own during long gaming sessions, not showing any significant
thermal throttling or frame-drop issues.
As Samsung's Nick Porter pointed out during a one-on-one interview with
TechRadar ahead of the phone's launch, the vapor chamber is "2.7x bigger
on average across the whole S23 series" this year, helping with thermal
efficiency, while the use of faster and more efficient LPDDR5X memory and
UFS 4.0 storage, lend themselves to greater performance and quality of life
too.
In testing, artificial benchmarks reveal what I suspected ahead of time: the
S23 Ultra gains a slight edge over the OnePlus 11 – with its
similar-but-technically-lesser chip – based on the numbers, but the Ultra's
lead is so slight that you're unlikely to feel any real-world benefit. As such,
that higher prime-core clock speed is far more beneficial for Samsung
Galaxy S23 series marketing campaign than it is the end user, but
regardless you're getting one of the most powerful, if not the most powerful
phone on the market.
In real-world use, the pairing of the new chipset, RAM and storage
collectively deliver performance that – as you'd hope for a device with the
S23 Ultra's standing and price tag – feels rock-solid. The most demanding
task the Ultra faced during review was running the graphically demanding
game Genshin Impact, with settings intentionally set to their upmost limits.
Everything ran smoothly for the 20 minutes of play time, but the phone did
get noticeably hot, to the point where I'd suggest sticking with the title's
default settings (at which it still looks and runs fantastically).
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: Software
Samsung is class-leading, when it comes to making the best Android
phones for update support, promising four years of OS updates and five
years of security updates across the Galaxy S23 series; with all three
devices running on the latest Android 13 – dressed in the company's own
One UI 5.1 – out of the box.
It should feel like a familiar experience for existing Samsung Galaxy
owners, with squircle icons and a generally flat graphical style as standard,
dressed with a few new additions that appear to focus on collaboration,
convenience and security.
The software suite is packed with useful functionalities, such as the Secure
Folder for protecting sensitive files, the Game Launcher for an enhanced
gaming experience, and the Bixby virtual assistant for voice-activated
convenience. From the Edge Panel, which provides quick access to your
favorite apps and tools, to Samsung Dex, which can project a Windows
PC-like interface to an external display via USB or even wirelessly, the
Galaxy S23 Ultra packs in more features than you'll ever need.
With so many features crammed in, it's no wonder that right out of the box,
the phone comes with ~50GB of its onboard storage already utilized.
Samsung's insistence on bundling in duplicate apps for every default
Google app (Calendar, Mail, Messages, Internet browser, etc.) also adds to
the pre-installed bloat, along with a plethora of other Samsung apps. While
disabling or hiding these apps is possible, it would be more convenient if
Samsung streamlined its software experience by eliminating the need for
duplicate apps.
Samsung Notes now allows for simultaneous creators to work within a
single document collaboratively, routines and modes can be set to suit
different scenarios – adjusting settings accordingly and an upgraded
privacy dashboard should dispel ambiguity around how secure your device
is.
Air Command and Air Gestures remain in place as part of the S Pen
experience, offering the ability to control the camera, translate text and cut
and paste on-screen content instantly, with simple stylus-driven actions,
although camera controls in particular take a little getting used to.
My only gripe with Samsung software in the past has been the
sluggishness that One UI operates with, but as I mentioned above, this
phone flies. But that's not all---Samsung has also made significant strides
in its software support. With the S23 Ultra, you can rest easy knowing that
you'll be treated to a guaranteed four years of OS updates and even longer
support for security updates.
Of course, the long-term performance of Samsung phones has been a
topic of debate, and only time will tell how the Galaxy S23 Ultra fares. But
with the leaps and bounds made in software optimization and support, it's
clear that Samsung is determined to change the narrative.
While One UI won't be to everyone's tastes, it's unique, fairly customizable
and displays a level of polish that's evident from initial setup to everyday
use, and which you'll be hard-pressed to find elsewhere. Want to scan a
QR code to connect to Wi-Fi during setup, instead of having to type out
your password? Done. Want your device to auto-restart when it senses
performance degradation? There's a toggle for that. Want to run two
instances of the same messaging app logged into different accounts
simultaneously? There's an option for that too.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: Camera
This year's major marketing push for the Galaxy S23 Ultra has been the
brand-new 200MP sensor for its primary rear camera. The other three rear
cameras remain unchanged, while the selfie camera gets a downgraded
12MP resolution but an upgraded sensor that also supports autofocus.
Let's break down the real-life camera performance one by one.
Cameras are one area where the Ultra has always stood out when looking
at the best Samsung phones available and the multi-sensor setup that the
company's been using for the last few generations has consistently
ensured that these devices find a place up at or near the top of our best
camera phones roundup year after year.
While the 12MP ultrawide and dual 3x and 10x 10MP telephoto sensors on
the back of the S23 Ultra feel decidedly familiar, the phone shrugs off the
primary 108MP resolution sensor seen on previous entries in the series
and replaces it – for the first time on a Samsung phone – with a whopping
200MP primary camera; thought to be the ISOCELL HP2 that TechRadar's
cameras editor, Tim Coleman, dived into a few days prior to the S23 series'
launch.
Such a change in hardware can sometimes result in a drop in quality for
some manufacturers; with their camera teams needing time to retune their
algorithms and color science to get the best from the new components
(something that's happened with the likes of OnePlus in the past). But
much as with Google's move to a new 50MP primary sensor on its Pixel 6
series and Apple's shift from a 12MP to a 48MP primary sensor the year
after, with the iPhone 14 Pro line, it's clear that Samsung's camera team
has ensured that the output from the S23 Ultra's new 200MP Adaptive Pixel
Sensor offers just as consistent and impressive an experience as its
predecessor, right out of the gate.
By default, the S23 Ultra's main camera pixel bins images by 16 to 1, down
to 12.5MP (output as 12MP stills) that use all that additional pixel data to
iron out image shake, while also taking in more light and retaining more
color information. Speaking of which, low light photography is a big area of
focus for the camera experience on this Ultra; with the promise of
enhanced night shots across the board – including portraits – as well as a
new astrophotography hyperlapse video mode.
Stabilization across stills and video has been improved too, with double the
angle of movement now possible in the OIS (optical image stabilization)
system, compared to last year's S22 Ultra (3-degrees on the S23 Ultra),
along with improved VDIS (video digital image stabilization) and faster
autofocus from the 'Super Quad Pixel' sensor, as Samsung has branded it.
For users who want to get more granular with the Ultra's photography
experience, the Expert RAW mode – integrated into the camera UI – now
supports an output of up to 50MP, rather than 12MP previously. The Ultra
also lets you snap 200MP stills (as jpegs), if you want to play with the full
sensor's available detail.
In practice, while shooting in raw allows for greater fidelity and significantly
more robust editing – letting you pull more data out of the darkest or
lightest parts of an image – the S23 Ultra seems to consistently under
expose in Expert RAW and results all come with a graded profile as
standard, rather than a neutral image.
In the pursuit of switching up sensors, all three of the S23 series also gain
a new 12MP front-facing snapper this generation, set into the display
(Samsung hasn't yet been bold enough to import the Z Fold series' under
display camera), which holds promise and brings more consistency to the
experience of owning an S23, regardless of model.
Anecdotally, the 12MP front-facer feels like a faster sensor than the one
found on its predecessor, offering up a nice overall image with impressive
dynamic range, as selfie snappers go.
In side-by side selfie tests with the Google Pixel 7 Pro and the iPhone 14
Pro Max, the S23 Ultra most closely matches Apple's flagship and offers a
surprisingly (for Samsung) natural-looking final image, with impressive
detail and what often came across as pleasing, more natural skin tones
than the Pixel, which was uncharacteristically out of step against both
Samsung's and Apple's phones in testing.
Samsung also continues to work closely with big social brands like Snap,
TikTok and Instagram to ensure phones like the S23 Ultra benefit from
higher fidelity image and video quality, as well as tighter integration with
creative features within each social app, something rival Android phone
makers miss out on.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: Battery Life
The battery specs read the same as the S22 Ultra, with a 5,000mAh cell
inside the S23 Ultra supporting 45W wired charging (along with wireless
and reverse wireless charging), however, Samsung claims that the
collective effect of the new hardware efficiencies and tighter integration
between hardware and software result in a 20% improvement that Porter
claims delivers "the longest ever battery life on a Galaxy S smartphone;"
and I'd be inclined to agree.
While the 100W charging speeds of OnePlus 11 and 125W speeds of the
Motorola Edge 30 Ultra both leave the S23 Ultra in the dust, actual
longevity on Samsung's new uber-flagship is greatly improved, despite the
phone having the same-capacity battery as its predecessor.
What was a one-day phone at best now lasts a day and a half, in normal
usage and will still see you through a full day, even if you plan on streaming
Disney Plus with brightness pushed up or want to dive into an hour of CoD:
Mobile or Wreckfest.
While the battery life is better than ever, Samsung's charging speeds still
leave much to be desired. The Galaxy S23 Ultra supports 45W of wired
charging, which, unfortunately, takes over an hour to charge the phone
from 0 to 100% entirely. It's worth noting that achieving this charging speed
requires the use of select PPS chargers, as most other USB PD chargers,
including the 65W charger I utilize, can only charge the S23 Ultra at 25
Watts, extending the charging time to around 75-80 minutes for a full
charge.
On a brighter note, wireless charging speeds are decently fast at 15 Watts,
and the S23 Ultra even enables you to wirelessly charge other devices or
TWS earbuds at up to 4.5 Watts.
In testing, the S23 also delivered some of the longest screen-on time per
charge of any phone we've tested recently, at approximately eight hours;
surpassing rival devices with similarly-capacious batteries by at least half
an hour.
Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra: Verdict
The Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra provides unmatched reliability in terms of
performance and battery life, arguably the most versatile set of cameras on
a phone, and productivity features that no other phone currently offers.
However, it is evident that Samsung has taken the iterative route here, not
really trying to up the ante in any field.
I can think of plenty of features other Android flagships have that the S23
Ultra doesn't have: faux leather back panels, higher PWM displays, faster
charging, 1-inch camera sensors, microscope lenses, and so on. Yet the
truth is that the S23 Ultra will still win in every comparison with those
phones because of its overall consistent goodness across the board.
Granted, these phones are often limited to select markets, leaving
Samsung as the go-to global option, allowing them to take a more relaxed
approach to innovation. We witness a similar pattern with foldable, where
Huawei, Xiaomi, and OPPO have released devices that seemingly address
all the "problems" that Samsung's foldable continues to grapple with.
With the Galaxy S23 Ultra, there's nothing inherently wrong, which
paradoxically diminishes the sense of uniqueness in its positive aspects. It
reminds me of a quote: "You are never dedicated to something you have
complete confidence in. No one is fanatically shouting that the sun is going
to rise tomorrow." Come to think of it, there's only one other phone that can
claim to be consistently good to the point of becoming mundane, and that's
the iPhone. And we all know how that's going.
If you are someone who actually needs the gazillion practical benefits the
Galaxy S23 Ultra provides, there is no other phone like it. If you won't use
the S Pen or the ridiculous zooming capabilities, you could be happy with a
Galaxy S23+ or a Pixel. And if you crave a more adventurous and
cutting-edge experience, perhaps one of the foldable options should be on
your radar. The S23 Ultra may not sport the flashiest gimmicks or push the
boundaries of design, but it delivers where it truly matters---reliability and
an exceptional user experience.
